If a packet capture is like
intercepting an envelope in the mail,
then packet analysis is like reading
the letter inside of the envelope.
Let's discuss how analyzing
packets can help us interpret and
understand network communications.
As you may know, networks are noisy.
There's an enormous volume of
communications happening between devices
at any given time.
And because of this, packet captures
can contain large amounts of network
communications, making analysis
challenging and time-consuming.
As a security professional, you'll be
working against the clock to protect
networks and
computer systems from potential attacks.
You may analyze network evidence in
the form of packet captures to identify
indicators of compromise.
Having the ability to filter network
traffic using packet sniffers to gather
relevant information
is an essential skill to have.
For example, let's say that you were
tasked with analyzing a packet capture
to find any indication
of data exfiltration.
How would you go about this?
Using a network analyzer tool, you can
filter the packet capture to sort packets.
This can help you quickly identify an
event associated with data exfiltration,
like large amounts of
data leaving a database.
There are many other filters you can apply
to packet captures to find the information
you need to support
an investigation efficiently.
Examples of network analyzer tools
include tcpdump and Wireshark.
tcpdump is accessed through a command
line while Wireshark has a graphical user
interface, or GUI.
Both tools are useful for
security analysts, and
soon you'll have
the opportunity to explore both.
Before we begin using these tools,
let's explore packet fields in detail,
specifically, IP headers.
Meet you there.